---
layout: post
title: WebQuest
date: 2013-12-31 19:07
category: Web Development
---

*In high school, I was a Software Engineering major (our school had a major system) and took a Web Development class as part of major requirements. The course consisted of classwork, homework assignments, projects, and exams. Some of our projects were labeled as levels, which meant that we were to first complete the current project before proceeding to the next project. We could not submit the next project without having first submitted the current project. Each assignment had a deadline to be met as well.*

And now we're on **Level 2**. For this project, we were to create a WebQuest (defined below). For my WebQuest, I wrote up a quick tutorial on setting up your own web space.

> A [WebQuest](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webquest) is an inquiry-oriented lesson format in which most or all the information that learners work with comes from the web. These can be created using various programs, including a simple word processing document that includes links to websites. - Wikipedia

Since the tutorial progresses one step at a time, I decided to lock down the links so that you'd need to go through all the instructions. Obviously, with only HTML and CSS, there's not much we can do to really lock the end user from skipping to the last step. If we had JavaScript, we could detect whether the end user has scrolled down to the end of the page and then make the links clickable (think terms of use/service agreements). We could also just turn the entire WebQuest into a series of YouTube videos and then unlock content based on how much of the video they have seen (think [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org)).

Playing around with the fonts was also fun, especially since fonts help form the end user's first impression. For these projects, we don't need to worry about the end user's impression, as the main goal is to utilize what we learned in class - in the real world, impression is key for the 3-15 seconds someone may spend before deciding whether to stay or leave the site.

I do like the strokes on the font I used for the headings. Fonts that allow you to combine letters with strokes are risky, though. The authors designate strokes to certain symbols, and you usually don't have to worry about letters missing from the alphabet. However, the goal is to find a readable, comfortable font that's easy on the end user's eyes. But, if like me, you're experimenting and not designing for a real world application, no need to over-think things - just [wing[ding]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wingdings) it.
