---
layout: post
title: BitCamp
date: 2014-04-07 00:14
category: Hackathons
---

I just got home from a 5-hour trip back to Binghamton from the University of Maryland, which was holding a hackathon named BitCamp. I worked with a classmate on *[Am I Productive?](http://alpha-amiproductive.rhcloud.com)*, a hardware and web project that won two company prizes - a shout out to OPIS and BookHolders! ChallengePost: [Link](http://challengepost.com/software/am-i-productive).

*Am I Productive?* utilizes OpenWRT in a router to monitor web traffic. We installed Squid, a proxy, into our router to pick up and send incoming data over to a server I have up with OpenShift. The server runs Python 3.3 with the Bottle framework, which allows us to receive the incoming post data and sort it into a MongoDB database. If we were to upgrade our hardware to the latest version, we would be able to intercept the MAC address with every request made to a web page and sort data to various profiles. The server hosts a bootstrapped dashboard  that organizes the data into four crucial pieces: how many requests were made, how many were deemed productive, how many were treated as procrastination on the user's part, and a score to represent the user's productivity. With a whitelist and blacklist of urls that we deem as either one or the other, we can gamify the web traffic into a report of how productive the user has been throughout the day.

Logs are rotated (archived) on Squid and then sent to the server. The sent information is deleted off the router to ensure that enough space on the router remains. With D3JS, we can visualize the sites the user has visited by frequency: sites are represented by circles and the sites the user visited often have a larger radius than other sites. We can move forward with D3JS to even create a leaderboard for the family - this is an application of *Am I Productive?* where a household utilizes our project to monitor web traffic from the whole family and see who's been making the most of their time.

The files for *Am I Productive?* will be available on my GitHub account soon.
