---
layout: post
title: Self-Publishing
date: 2014-02-05 18:08
category: Updates
---

Back in November of 2013, I participated in NaNoWriMo, which stands for <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Na</strong></span>tional <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>No</strong></span>vel <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Wri</strong></span>ting <span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Mo</strong></span>nth.

> National Novel Writing Month was established in 1999. National Novel Writing Month (NaNoWriMo) is a fun, seat-of-your-pants approach to creative writing. On November 1, participants begin working towards the goal of writing a 50,000-word novel by 11:59 p.m. on November 30. Valuing enthusiasm, determination, and a deadline, NaNoWriMo is for anyone who has ever thought fleetingly about writing a novel.  National Novel Writing Month is also a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that believes your story matters. You know how writing makes the world a more creative, vibrant place. Through NaNoWriMo—as well as our Young Writers Program, the Come Write In program, and Camp NaNoWriMo—we work hard to empower and encourage that vibrant creativity around the world. - NaNoWriMo About Page

To provide some insight for the scale of the event, in 2012, 341,375 participants took the challenge and over 250 have gone as far as to become published with traditional publishing houses. I managed to complete the challenge, but I'm not ready to publish and distribute. My book is in the fantasy genre, applying the concept of magic. Its title is *Order of the Dragon: New Beginnings*, and it is the first installment to the series to come. I've been planning the story for what seems like years, and if I were to go through my thoughts in the form of a movie, the length of material is likely to encompass a scale comparable to the television show [Big Bang Theory](http://www.cbs.com/shows/big_bang_theory/) three times over, which I believe is in its 7th season. While I can imagine the ending, the beginning is what needs work.

While I was not going to distribute my book, I did want to take advantage of the offers from NaNoWriMo's sponsors for those who completed the challenge. So, I went ahead and decided to self-publish my book with Lulu, a community for authors that provides tools for publishing works for personal use or for sale and distribution from the Lulu marketplace to Amazon, Barnes & Noble and its Nook Bookstore, Apple iBooks, and so on. CreateSpace, another sponsor, also offers 2 free paperback copies as well, but the deadline is much later in the year than that of Lulu's offer. The copy I received is a hardcover first-edition proof copy. The mention of the fact that the book is a proof copy is obscurely placed behind the back of the dust jacket. I only had to pay for shipping and the manufacturing cost of $19.90 was waived. The cover picture is something I found on Flickr that matches well with how I envisioned the center of *Draoi Academy*, an elite school for young wizards to learn about and train in magic within the story. The picture was available for use with attribution going in the copyright page of the book. Some other interesting facts: the book came out to be 237 pages for the story and it is divided into 25 chapters in addition to a prologue and epilogue.

A quick summary of the book is below, and I plan to continue and republish the first book in the near future, as it is yet to be complete. With plenty of dialogue and a lack of detail, the 240-ish page book could possibly see a 100% increase in the number of pages. *And a fun fact: my GitHub username used to be one of the protagonist's names.*

> The protagonist goes through his eleventh school transfer before finally entering high school. What less can you expect from the nephew of a powerful wizard wanted dead by seven countries? All under the influence of a certain government faction, the protagonist and his uncle travel from one home to another under the protection of a certain organization. With his parents nowhere to be found, the young boy is left with the daunting task of watching his crazy uncle - or so it seems, until the day the young boy finds himself in a world unfamiliar to him. And so begins the adventure of a lifetime for the protagonist and his friends! - Order of the Dragon: New Beginnings, Summary
