---
layout: post
title: HackRPI
date: 2014-11-17 19:47
category: Hackathons
---

RPI threw its first hackathon last weekend! We got a bus for Binghamton students (fun fact: Binghamton students made up ~10% of HackRPI!) and drove 2 hours to RPI for 23 hours of fun (we unfortunately lost an hour due to bus delays).

At HackRPI, my teammates and I decided to put some machine-learning to use and build an algorithm such that a machine can be trained with ChallengePost data and determine whether a project submission stands a chance of winning. Since this project was a project in itself, we did plug it in and get "1" back (1 indicates a chance of winning), which amused the visitors at the expo. While we didn't win any prizes for our project, [Paradox Calculator](http://challengepost.com/software/paradox-calculator), we did have other Binghamton students winning.

I specifically worked on writing a Python script to automate the scraping of all ~20,000 ChallengePost projects, since ChallengePost lacks an API. I learned how to use lxml and xpath in Python to extract data from the html files fetched from ChallengePost. Our project used numpy and Anaconda for the machine-learning portion of the project. We used ~2,000 projects as sample data, with 25% winning and 75% not winning. With just a URL to your ChallengePost project, Paradox Calculator will use past data to make a decision as to your chances of winning.

With a few more hours, I would have liked to build a Python application on Heroku that can transfer a URL from a form on the frontend to the Python code for processing, and return the 0 or 1 back to the user interface. With a nice design, we would be able to have everyone submit their projects online for further training. Unfortunately, URL structures differ between submissions for a hackathon and project links on ChallengePost, so we couldn't process all HackRPI projects at once in time for the expo. We decided to let the audience take control of my laptop and see their project's calculated standing for themselves, which helped grow attention to our project.

Aside from hacking on Paradox Calculator, I won a raffle for a waterproof, wireless Bluetooth speaker from Microsoft! A shout out to Microsoft for the awesome treat!

https://twitter.com/alanplotko/status/534055312828162048

A shout out to the HackRPI organizers too for a great first hackathon! They ensured everything ran smoothly for both food and Internet as well as hosting some events and talks along the way. While there were some issues towards the end in getting final results out for the closing ceremony, I was quite amazed by how smoothly things went. It may have been the smaller numbers in hacking time and participants, but even so, as a first hackathon, HackRPI did very well. I look forward to the next HackRPI - in the meantime, I'm done with hackathons for the Fall season and I am excited for the Winter and Spring hackathons to come!

...but first, I need to catch up with [NaNoWriMo](http://alanplotko.com/updates/self-publishing)...
