---
layout: post
title: Creating Your Personal Website
date: 2014-04-18 13:49
category: Guides
---

I've been seeing peers research and prepare for setting up personal websites (e.g. a blog, a medium to post accomplishments, etc.), so this quick guide is dedicated to them.

<div class="post-message">Have questions? Want to hear more about something else in this guide? [Leave me a note](http://alanplotko.com/contact-me).</div>

___

### I. Introduction

So you want to get yourself a website? The first matter to settle is what exactly you're trying to accomplish by getting a personal website. Do you need a place to convey your thoughts? If so, perhaps a blog such as mine would be sufficient. Are you looking for just a place to post your accomplishments? You could find a template (or design your own) and just edit your pages when you need to add a new feat. Either way, in order to get that website going, you'll need a *home* on the web. And, of course, every *home* has its unique *address*.

When I say *home*, I'm referring to a space on the web where your website will live. There are various companies that provide space on their servers in exchange for a monthly or annual cost. Some companies even provide space in exchange for placing advertisements across your site or for free without any advertisements at all. These companies are called web hosts, hosting providers, hosts, etc., and the service they provide is web hosting, hosting, etc. You can think of them as real estate agents trying to offer you the best deal in a new home. With a simple Google search, you'll find various interchangeable terms accompanied by the ones I listed, but they all imply the same thing. However, do note that there are differences in the types of hosting that companies offer. The hosting you'll need will often be referred to as [shared hosting](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared_web_hosting_service), meaning that you'll have your own space on a server that all customers are located on. For larger companies with many clients, there will be many servers that clients are distributed across.

Now, about this unique *address* - I'm sure that if I told you to look something up, you would know how to get to a search engine like Google and do so. But, how do you remember where to find the Google website? (No, searching for "Google" in Google is not the answer because that still involves knowing where Google is.) You simply remember the website for Google is "www.google.com" (let's pretend the omnibox/address bar isn't an option). That's Google's *address*, or their domain. Some companies offer domain registration and are called domain name registrars. A domain name would be something like "google" with the extension ".com". There are various domain name extensions out there and you can find a large list [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Internet_top-level_domains#Original_top-level_domains). You'll find companies that provide both the *home* and the *address*, which can make life easier for you by only having to stick with one company to get web hosting and a domain name. However, many often find a hosting provider and a domain name registrar and buy each component separately from two companies. That is also a choice to consider.

Just to go over things once more, you'll need two components to create a personal website: space on a server to place the files for your website on and a way to get to that space of yours on the server. The hosting provider will provide the space and a domain name registrar will provide the domain. A company that happens to do both hosting and domain name registration can provide both components to you.

### II. Domain Names

If you were to not get a domain name, then you would need to involve the IP address of the server in order to get to your website. You're not going to remember *74.125.226.200* every time you want to go to Google and search something, but, "google.com" sticks in your memory easily. However, something like "thisismypersonalwebsitewhatdoyouthink.com" is too long to commit to memory. A domain name should be memorable to the end user or visitor. A complex domain name contradicts its purpose, which is to mask an IP address and make it easier for you to get to the website. After all, domain names simply point to IP addresses. Going to "google.com" basically tells the domain name servers to go to *74.125.226.200**.* You can learn more about DNS [here](http://computer.howstuffworks.com/dns.htm), but in summary, domain names simplify the web. Did you ever try to remember long strings of binary (e.g. 101010110000111110001)? Hexadecimal is used to remember binary numbers in groups of four, turning the previous example into 1561F1. Now, which is easier to remember? The same goes for how dashes help separate a phone number for easy memorization. Domain names mask IP addresses, making it easier for you to find a website's *home* on the web.

Now that we're past the basics, let's get ourselves a domain. First off, the general template for a personal website is "first name, last name," so something like "alanplotko.com". Of course, you're free to slightly change that up (e.g. adding a middle initial). Sometimes, you'll notice that a domain is already registered; in that case, someone beat you to it, so your name is common enough for someone else with that name to have registered it. Don't fret, as there are ways around it. You could use your middle name's initial, if you have one, separate your full name with dashes, and so on. Sometimes, domain name registrars automatically offer suggestions if a domain name you've searched for is taken. Use these suggestions as a foundation to find something that works for you.

There are plenty of companies out there, but rather than going through a large list, I'll separate the remainder of this guide into two sections. Depending on your skill as well as level of commitment, you can look through one of the two sections below.

### A. Not committed, something to start off with that's free

For this case, I would recommend [WordPress.com](http://wordpress.com/) for your needs. You'll be set up with a blog that you can post your accomplishments on at "your custom name".wordpress.com - this is a subdomain (something.domain.com versus domain.com) provided free to you by WordPress. If you don't need the blogging aspect of WordPress, you can still make a static website by making pages on your WordPress website that you'll manually control yourself. Of course, there are other options out there such as [Blogger](https://www.blogger.com/start), [Weebly](http://www.weebly.com/start/), and [Webs](http://www.webs.com/Signup). These websites have free templates available for use or are drag-and-drop, letting you build your website to your liking. You are provided with a domain name that stems from the hosting provider for free. This is a great way to get a feel for how your website will look. You can also get a free top-level domain name (not a subdomain, e.g. domain.com), although your domain extension will probably be something like ".tk".

### B. Committed, getting a domain name and your own space

If you want your own domain name and space, I recommend [Arvixe](https://www.arvixe.com/university/schoolselect). I used Arvixe's services previously and was provided with a free .com domain for three months of hosting. After the three months, I could start paying for the plan (the domain name is free as long as you stick with Arvixe). I left Arvixe after the three months, transferring the domain over to NameCheap and finding a free web hosting provider for the website. With Arvixe, you have access to cPanel, an administrative tool that lets you manage your website. You can also see how many of each feature you have left on your account (i.e. email accounts for your domain, disk space, bandwidth for the month, etc.) For Arvixe, it is *unmetered* (as much as you want). Of course, no server can handle an unlimited amount of anything. Companies that advertise "unmetered" or "unlimited" imply that they don't impose limits because they know that you will never reach them. On the case you do, you will be contacted to upgrade to a larger plan (which is more costly). Unless you're using gigabytes or terabytes of disk space, have millions of visitors eating up your bandwidth, or for some reason, have hundreds or thousands of email addresses off your domain, the average university student and their needs should be fine. I believe Arvixe's cPanel has options for building a website. Alternatively, you can host [WordPress](http://wordpress.org/) yourself. [FileZilla](https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?type=client) is a great FTP client. [FTP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_Transfer_Protocol) is file transfer protocol, used to let you transfer files over to your new *home*. You can download WordPress, for instance, extract from the .zip folder, and upload WordPress from your desktop or downloads folder to your space on the server via FTP.

After the first three months, you can get in contact with Arvixe to aid you in moving your domain to someone else and find a free hosting provider (that allows custom domain names) or you can stick with Arvixe and pay the costs. A ".com" domain name costs about $10 a year, whereas hosting can come out to about $4 monthly or $48 for the year. If you buy in bulk (where bulk implies time), a three-year plan might save you more money for some companies, but you'll be stuck with the plan for three years. Other companies just charge the same price and merely offer you a chance to pay off x years in advance so that you don't have to worry about renewing your domain name. Note that domain names expire if you don't pay for them yearly. If they expire, anyone can grab them, so make sure to pay for them on time! Most companies will notify you in advance via email regarding domains that are approaching their expiration date and will urge you to renew them in advance.

If you decide to leave Arvixe and you don't want to lose the domain name, I recommend [NameCheap](http://www.namecheap.com/?aff=66847) for your domains. They also provide hosting as well! I've been with NameCheap since I left Arvixe and I've had great customer support and no problems whatsoever with the domain name. I know many people who have been with NameCheap as well that also highly recommend their services. They charge about $10 for a ".com" domain name and offer WhoisGuard free for the first year ($2.88 per year, otherwise, which is the current price as of the date this post was written), which masks your personal information that associates a domain to your identity (like your name, email, and address). Anyone can find that information by looking up your domain name, but WhoisGuard essentially makes it private, and even masks your email address with one that forwards all emails to you. NameCheap also has monthly discounts, especially those that reduce the domain cost for new domain registrations or transfers, so be sure to check that out before transferring to NameCheap, if you decide to do so. You'll be charged around the same price for a transfer and an additional year will be added to your domain name as a result. NameCheap also attends hackathons and provides free domain name coupons, allowing you to get a domain name with no charge for the first year. They sometimes give out t-shirts at hackathons as well. And no, I'm not just recommending NameCheap because I'm wearing their t-shirt as I'm writing this (wait, no, I just checked, I'm not wearing it today).

Just a note: NameCheap's cheapest hosting plan is about $2.95 a month for 3 years. With a coupon for 50% off for new customers, you could snatch a deal for about $50 for 3 years. There are renewal coupons out there as well if you search far enough, as well as coupons for WhoisGuard and domains. This pricing is once again current as of the date this post was written.

___

That's all I have for now. This guide may grow in the future, but for now, there are two questions to ask yourself:

1. *What type of website do you need?*
2. *Are you in the position to pay the costs?*

If you're not working part-time or can't afford the costs, section A might work out for you. If you can afford the domain name, section B might be something to consider. You could also mix it up and find a free hosting provider such as one in section A and use a custom domain. Of course, if you can afford to, you could purchase both a hosting plan and domain. Thanks for reading and good luck with your website! If you have any questions or concerns, [feel free to leave me a note](http://alanplotko.com/contact-me).
