---
layout: post
title: Never Work a Day in Your Life
date: 2015-01-05 00:36
category: Writing
---

Insane, isn't it? The title, I mean. You probably read that thinking that the blog was "hacked" or something and this is some sort of spam. Don't sweat it - I'm writing this piece as part of [HH Design Writing Day](https://www.facebook.com/events/890174497705247/). HH stands for Hackathon Hackers - it's a great community of technology enthusiasts who love hackathons (hackathons: programming marathons, I might do a separate piece on hackathons in the future, but if you've read my hackathon posts, you probably have some idea of what it is).

Carrying on now. So what does it mean to never work a day in your life? Perhaps it's waking up to a junk-food breakfast and watching television all day... or maybe it's lazing around in the sun at the beach... but, it can also mean doing what you like - generic, right? Well, think about it: if all you do in a day is something you like, you can't really call it "work", can you? I, for example, love to build things. If I could do that all day, that would be a great day.

In the past, I did a lot of studying in law to follow a sibling's footsteps. As far as I was concerned, this was a visible path in the sea of darkness that is our futures. Until I could make my own way through, I figured I would just tread along the one in front of me. I'd make a reference to "The Road Not Taken" by Robert Frost, but in this case, I'm stuck in a dark room. I don't see multiple paths, but I could try to make one. I don't know its size, but I know it's really dark and there's no light switch to be found - or walls to begin with. That's basically everyone when it comes to seeing the future, so don't fret. It's also how I assume a startup must feel, so kudos to those who founded their own companies! However, I'm writing this to my fellow peers who are also in the same dark room. Maybe you're in the one on the lower floors or higher floors. Are there floors to begin with? Either way, it's really dark in here. You might be the same age as me. You might be in university as well. Or in high school or perhaps even younger? (side note: I feel like making a HH subgroup for a dark room now.)

Nonetheless, what do we do to find our way out of this room? Well, the way I see things, that's when your time is up in the world. Until then, you'll be walking some random path in the dark. And no, pathfinding is not an option. There are no modules you can import here and there's no terminal either. You can choose to stop walking whenever you want, but it's fine to keep on going; I actually recommend you keep on going. Nothing will come to those who stand around. Just keep on moving forward.

Enough of this corny metaphor now. Everyone here has their own interests, hobbies - stuff they like to do. I grew up getting into programming. While I followed the path to law (which was laid out for me by a sibling who previous traversed the path), I still took detours to explore the field of computer science. Many of you might have went through something similar - your interests and actions do not coincide. I'm writing to you today to slap you in the face, scold you, and then give you a big hug. Actually, I won't do any of that, but if you would like to visit, I can provide milk and cookies.

<span style="text-align: center;">**_Do what you love._**</span>

___

## *A slap in the face...*

There's no point in following a path that doesn't interest you. In some cases, you might have family pressuring you or the idea of liberal arts vs. STEM influencing you. In the long run, after university, or high school, you'll get a job and make money to support yourself and a future family. Long after, you'll come across a door in a dark room and pass on your legacy to your children and the next generation. Yes, I lied, I'm still using that corny metaphor. Until that time comes, why spend all that effort doing something you hate or have no attachments for? Sounds like a waste of time.

## *Scolding time - this hurts me more than it hurts you...*

Well, what can I say? For me personally, I've followed law and kept up with my hobbies in programming. I luckily came across the opportunity to study the subject in class at my high school, which led me to take up programming as a career and not just a hobby. What attracted me to the field was being able to solve problems by building amazing things. It's also why I love hackathons so much. As for you, what attracts you to your field? What do you want to do in the future? What's the first thing you think of in the morning? Know where I'm going with this? Answering these questions back then, I'd give textbook answers associated with law for my field and talk about my hobby otherwise. That's where I realized a disconnect between my interests and actions. I was studying law, but I loved programming. If I were to become a lawyer like my sibling, what would become of me? Was I fit to become a lawyer? Would I like taking on cases? I've done mock trials in class and dreaded them due to the introvert in me. I've become more extroverted over the years, but I could not imagine myself doing anything associated with law. However, the first thing in the morning that I think of, aside from thoughts on breakfast, is the same question that always haunts me (in a good way):</p>

<span style="text-align: center;">**_What am I going to build today?_**</span>

## *Need a hug?*

I'll keep this short (by my standards; disclaimer: I write novels, so this is short for me). Stay connected with friends and make new ones. It's those friends who you will be stuck with at Bingo Hour in retirement. It's also those friends who will be there for you when you need them for support and hugs. Make mistakes. Have regrets. Well, don't go wild on that. Instead, know that it's fine to make them as long as you learn from them. You're still young, so it's better now than later. Many go through a disconnect in high school or university. Some may not at all. Many have changed majors multiple times. Others have stuck through them instead. If you think you're not fit for something you love, please pass this on to the source of your worry - particularly the section on slapping someone in the face. For instance, if you're interested in engineering, but your family/friends/third party of any kind want you to be a doctor. Or perhaps you love to write, but you're studying mathematics at the time. Remember, you can always apply what you love to your field. I love to write and I'm a computer science major. You can like multiple things and do multiple things, but I'm speaking to those who have no attachment whatsoever to their current field. Get it together and ask yourself what you really like before it's too late. If you don't know, that's perfectly fine! On the contrary, I'd be concerned if you're studying something you know you don't have any interest in or would not want to do out of school. And don't let anyone tell you what to be in life - that's for you to figure out. I could go on, but cookies and milk await. Perhaps it's too late for you to drop by for them now.

> "Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life." - Confucius

*Oh, so that's where the title came from...* anyway, hopefully I made some sense to you. Perhaps you're perfectly comfortable where you are. Maybe you're on the opposite end struggling in the dark room. Either way, just do what you love. You won't get anywhere forcing yourself to be what you're not. And that's the worst regret to have of the many you may make in a lifetime: feeling out of place.
